Welcome back.
Now I'm going to do is that I'm going to check the size of the image or the size of the file that they
that the user is trying to upload.
It's very important to check the size because you wouldn't want users to upload images that have or
files that have a very and extraordinarily huge size.
So here this script is going to check file size.
So in order to check the file size, we need to get the file, which is which has the name of picture
here, as you can see picture.
And then we need to get its size and then we need to compare it with a value.
So in, in, in BHP, one megabyte is 1000.
So this is one megabyte.
5000 is five megabytes.
So this is five megabytes.
So if the file if the file is greater than five megabyte, I'm going to say sorry, your file is too
large.
So my, my my limit is five megabytes per file.
So you can add this piece of code in order to block users from uploading files that are greater than
five megabytes.
Or you can specify your your the size that you want.
And where the question now is, where should you add this?
Good.
Well, you need to copy this code and add it after you have verified the right type of file.
So the type of file goes first.
And then if the file if the file is is one of these has one of these extensions, then we can here check
this out.
So here we can base that good.
So if the file has if the file if the file has one of these if the file is greater than five megabytes,
then we need to stop else else we can upload.
So I'm going to copy this piece of code and then I'm going to sit here and I'm going to walk you through
the code one more time because the code is getting complicated.
So first, before we do anything, we need to specify the the types and then we need to check whether
the file has one of these extensions.
If the file in our case in this example, it's an image.
It should be an image.
If the file is not an image, then we need to stop.
If the file is in need that image, then we need to check the size of that image.
If the size of that image is too large, in our case here, I'm going to say, let's say one megabyte
or let's say even.
Let me say one megabyte.
Let me see here.
One megabyte.
Because in my my file, I think as do megabytes.
I want to check.
I want to test with this.
And if the file is is greater than one megabyte, then we need to say sorry.
Your files do a lot.
If the file is smaller than one megabyte, then we can upload that file.
So let me now click on file and Vince Cable.
Help me head on over to the browser to test.
Now, let me refresh.
Let me let me select the file one more time.
Remember this file, Minister?
Look at this file and then I'm going to click on Submit.
And the file has been uploaded successfully because the file I think is smaller than one megabytes.
So let me here reduce the size further.
I'm going to say I'm going to say 1000, which I think one bytes.
Or I think one kilobyte.
I'm not sure.
I think it's one kilobyte.
Let me.
I'm not sure.
Let me check one more time here.
If I if I try to upload the file, as you can see, it says here.
Sorry, your file is too large because here my limit is too small.
But if I increase my limit to one megabyte, it is going to accept that file and the file will be uploaded
to file.
Now will be uploaded.
As you can see, the file will be uploaded here.
It says file uploaded successfully.
So this is a logic that that will first check the file extension and then it is also going to check
the file size.
So these these two things are very, very important.
Checking the file extension or the file or this type of file is very important.
You shouldn't allow users to upload any type of file they want.
You should allow users to upload files that are you want them to upload.
For example, if you accept images, then you should allow users users to upload only images.
If you allow users to upload PDF, then you should allow users to upload media.
All you need to do is to replace this.
So these extensions with the extensions that you want.
The second thing that you need to check is the size.
The size is very important.
And you always need to to prevent users from uploading files that are too large and too large depends
upon your application.
Some applications might maybe you a project that allows users to upload one gigabyte.
And this case you can say here, 1 million and this is going to accept one.
110, I think 1010 million, which is going to accept you allow users to upload one gigabyte.
And and it depends again to large depends upon your website your your or your web application.
Same with applications except only small sizes.
Other websites and with applications accept larger sizes.